Let's now work on some of these belts and straps we've got the glove pretty much done.
We've got a little tunic pretty well taken care of.
Let's take a look at the belt here.
I've got a reference image for this.
I want to bring that in here.
So I've got this belt image right here and it isn't much but it's kind of.
I like it because it's got these edges with the seams here and it's got a bit of texture to it so I'm
going to just keep this up so I have a visual on this.
I'm going to go ahead and right click on this and choose join the area and then drag down here and join
those two windows together.
I think I should go ahead and add a little thickness to this.
The way I did the glove so I'll tab into edit mode and I'll Allt click one of these edges to select
that entire edge loop and I'll press e to extrude and click and then I'll hit s.
I'm just going to scale in quite a bit here maybe something like that.
And down here as well I'll press alt and click if Rick Strood asked to scale in and move that in.
So now that we have that I'm going to add a few edge loops to hold these edges because like we did before
if I added the subdivision surface modifier it's kind of kind of collapse on us.
So to keep it from doing that let's go ahead and add a couple of edge loops so press control are.
And for this I'll just scroll the mouse wheel and maybe add three edge loops here and click and then
click again and then what I'll do is just go to the scale tool and just expand that up to kind of tighten
those edges here.
Let's get one up in here like that and maybe one down here as well.
Might as well
go.
So we've got now the belt holding its shape a little better.
We can also click the smooth shading over here.
So I'm going to go ahead and remove this subdivision surfaces modifier and then I'll come back and add
a multi resolution and let's add some subdivisions subdivided.
I don't know three or four times it's true four and try that.
So now what I'd like to do is just add some of this kind of seam work along the edges of that belt.
So I think I'll just press shift h to hide it to hide everything else.
I should say and let's start working on this.
So in the same way we did the seams for the glove.
Let's go to the sculped tool here are sculped mode.
And let's switch to the mask tool.
Let's come over here and choose smooth stroke and let's see if we can draw out a mask that will be our
seams.
I'm going to press the three key and the five key to go into orthographic view.
All right so let's test out the mask here if I just draw it like this and draw down you can see it's
kind of how it's thin going horizontally and thick going down.
That's not what I want here.
And I think I know the reason we've seen this before so if I go back to object mode and if I go back
to sculpt mode you can see up here yet object has non uniform scale sculpting may be unpredictable.
All right well that's an understatement there so let's select this again in Object mode and let's press
control a and let's apply the rotation and scale to this object to that.
Now let's go back to sculpt mode.
We don't get that error any any more.
And now the mask lays down on the object a little better.
All right so I'll undo that and get these seams on the top and bottom.
I'm going to try another method of drawing here and I'm going to try this line and I'm going to turn
off the pressure sensitivity for the strength.
So it's always the same width and I'm just going to begin over here.
Let's try this begin over here I'm going to click and drag.
You can see I've got this line and I'm going to drag all the way over here and then a lead up and now
I get a nice clean line over here.
So is that what I want here is that it looks like it could be a little bit higher up so let me try that
again.
I'm going to start right up here.
And drag right over to here and we go.
So now I'm going to press the one key and go to the front view and let's do this again click up here.
Draw a line and let up and we go.
And once again I'll press instead of the three key press control three and that'll jump back here to
the back or Scuse me the left I should say and I'll try this again.
So and now control one and now that's the back and I'll try drawing.
Try drawing this again like this.
We've got some pretty good lines there so I'm going to tumble out of this and hit the five key to go
to perspective view again and I'll just come through and do a little bit of touch up here along the
edges.
I think that's looking pretty good.
Let's go ahead and test it once again like we did before so we make sure it's OK before we do any more.
So I'll press control I need to invert the selection.
Go back to the sculped tool.
Increase the size a bit and just come through here and lightly.
Well let me turn off smooth stroke.
I'm just going to come through and lightly sculpt out a bit to get kind of a seam or an edge to the
belt.
Right.
I'm going to press Allt M see what we have.
Oh there's some places I missed here aren't there.
So let me try almoner undo and sculpt again here.
But I think I'm going to run through it with the flattened tool as well saw press command Z and I'm
going to puff this out just a little bit more and then I'll run through it with the Flaten wraps too
much with the flattened tool.
So now when I come up here to the flattened brush and let's try this it's going to run over this a bit.
And now press alt M see how that looks Yeah so if I bring everything else back let me go back to object
mode press alt H.
See how that looks.
Yeah I think that's what I'm looking for.
So I'll go ahead and do that to the bottom part of the belt as well.
And then we go hit the one key
and control I to invert the selection back to the sculped tool.
Increase the size a bit and let's try this
and I'll go to the flattened tool again and let's try and flatten this out just a bit.
Let's take a look at it.
Now with everything else go back to object mode press alt H and let's take a look at it with everything
else.
So there's that part of the belt we should probably do a similar thing for the straps.
But before I do that I'd like to use the stencil tool to get some really fine detail bump going on the
belt.
I like some of this texture here and be nice to have some of that on the belt and the straps.
So what I want to do is come back to this sculpt draw brush and I'd like to come over here to the texture
area and I want to add a new texture now instead of clicking right here on NEW thing I want them to
do is come over here to the texture panel over here and click on new there.
Now I've got this texture here assigned over here so that's good.
What I want to do now is come over here and click on open and well there are a couple of ways I could
do this.
I could open a new image one that I have on my hard drive or I could also generate one procedurally
out of Blender.
So if I wanted to generate one out of Blender I could come over here to the type and choose something
like noise or clouds or Stucky or Verona or something like that.
I'm going to try this one try that.
So here's that texture.
Now I have in my brush.
So what I can do is come down here to view plane and change it from view plane to.
I could try random here and now if I painted on this you can see that I get this kind of random bumpy
texture that is from this procedural texture.
I can also come over here to the stencil mode and click that.
And now you can see when I hover over here I've got this black stencil in my 3-D view.
Now just like you can move around in a 3-D viewport with the middle mouse button.
If you use the right mouse button over the stencil here you can move it around and then you can use
shift right mouse button to scale it down or scale it up.
So let's say I wanted to do something like this and then I can use the middle mouse button to zoom in
and out and move around blysse I want to do something like this.
I can go ahead and paint on this and you can see how it's coming through the stencil like this.
So there you go.
So you can do it two ways if you really want the detail precisely on the model as it is in the texture
you'd use stencil here.
However I think mine will be best with this random.
So I'll try this.
I'm going to zoom in a bit and adjust my brush and if I come in here and lightly go like that.
Now I think I want it a little bit smaller and go like this and you lightly get this in here.
Yeah.
If I come in here and just lightly sculpt in here you can see I can get this kind of bumpy texture to
it.
And so if we zoom out and you can see we're getting this kind of more realistic texture on it.
So I'm going to go around and kind of paint this texture on it in kind of a random way here
and also come through and just paint or sculpt that same texture on the edges.
Of the belt just with a slightly smaller brush.
All right so there we have our belt.
It's got a nice kind of edge or seam along the top and the bottom and it's got some good worn leather
type of texture on it.
Now to end this kind of thing I'll probably come through and do the same thing for the glove here.
Maybe put that kind of textured pattern on this part around the little raised straps maybe even another
type on on the raised straps so you can get all kinds of interesting detail by adding texture to your
brush.